 BRIEF DESCRIPTION:EMBA 7450: DIGITAL BUSINESS STRATEGY UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA – TERRY COLLEGE OF BUSINESS MODULE 6 – FALL 2016We are in the digital age. This means that digital technologies are fundamental to just about everything we do in business – from internal operations and business processes to external customer interactions and new product development. Much of our current thinking on strategy – the cannons of business schools – are evolving in this digital age.Since digital technologies are ubiquitous and constantly evolving, in three short meetings we cannot possibly cover the breadth of the topic. Instead, this class focuses on what executives need to know from a strategic perspective. We will explore two strategic topics: digital disruptions and digital platforms. Then students will team up to dig deeply in a particular topic they choose and present the findings of their research to the class, including a synopsis of what executives need to know about the topic. We will also discuss topics, have guest speakers, and conduct in-class exercises in topics such as data analytics, cybersecurity, and design thinking.Each class will be followed up by a required “reflection” essay. This essay is critical for student executives to look for ways to connect the lessons from the class to their own organizations and complete the learning cycle.INSTRUCTOR:CLASS MEETINGS:Dr. Nick BerenteMobile: (440) 725-6150 Email: berente@uga.eduTerry Executive Education Center Room 122Saturdays:August 12 September 9 September 308:00 AM–4:00 PM LEARNING OUTCOMES:- Understand the competitive landscape of the digital age- Learn principles of digital disruption and digital platforms.- Dig deeply into another IT/digital-related topic of your choosing- Gain a breadth of understanding about a variety of IT/digital-related topics- Get insight from guest speakers in data analytics and trends in digital innovations- Connect ideas to your own company or career through in-class exercises and writtenreflections1
CALENDAR OVERVIEW:  Date     Topic   Deliverables      August 12  Digital Disruption- guest speaker (data analytics): Sandeep Gupta, Equifax/Amazon   - Case write-up – due Aug 11- Report topic selection email- In-class exercise- Reflection essay – due Aug 15      September 9Digital Platforms- guest speaker (security & privacy): Peter Lester, PWC Information Security Practice  - Case write-up - due Sept 8- In-class exercise- Reflection essay – due Sept 12      Virtual Session (Sept 18-22)   Topic presentation and report outline phone call / meeting     - Report scope and goals outline – due Sep 15- Key reference materials identified     September 30Topics in Digital and Information Technology Management- guest speaker (digital product dev): Varun Nagaraj, CEO Sierra Monitor Corporation   - Report due Sept 29- Group presentation- One-page executive handout - Reflection essay – due Oct 2 GRADING:- 35 Points – Participation (attendance, discussion, & activities)- 40 Points – Report & Presentation- 25 Points – Reflections and Case write-ups (5 points each)First Missed Class- Additional In-Depth Research Report – specified by instructor. The goal of this will be to thoroughly cover the topics in the missed class and to extend them with additional research and current readings.Second Missed Class- Must retake the course in the future (or come to another arrangement with instructor)Incompletes- Students are expected to complete every requirement of the course. Failure to submit a satisfactory case write-up, in-class exercise, reflection essay, or report will result in an “incomplete” for the course until the student submits a complete, satisfactory assignment.2
RESEARCH REPORT AND PRESENTATIONS:1. Pick a topic, be specific and get email approval from instructor.2. Outline the report and identify key reference material, send to instructor and schedule avirtual meeting during or before the week of September 18th. 3. Deliverables:a. Report (~8-10 double-spaced pages fully referenced with examples) – 20 points – includes: executive summary; detailed explanation of the topic; major current issues / practices / business models associated with the topic; one or more detailed business examples – in particular you must analyze thebusiness model – how does the topic fit in the revenue/cost scheme?; key companies/vendors associated with the topic and a general comparison a final section clearly reflecting on major current issues and the future of thetopicb. Presentation – 10 points – professional and polished, all group membersparticipate and integrated. Must deliver in under 25 minutes to get full credit.c. Executive Handout – 10 points – well designed and intended to be useful toexecutives in thinking about the topic; user-friendly is key.4. Report due September 25 midnight.POTENTIAL TOPICS:Topics in Strategic Information Technology Management Architecture: Cloud Computing, Enterprise Architectures, and Services IT Sourcing: Outsourcing, Spend Analytics, Portfolio Analysis (TQ/FQ), SLAs IT Implementation: IT Project Management Best Practices; Implementing IT such as EnterpriseInformation Systems / ERP, IT Business Case Development IT Development: Software development; DevOps; agile methods; software languages and tools,OSS Information Security: IT governance and risk; cybersecurity; business continuity planning Mobile Applications: Corporate app best practices & issues, mobile device/BYOD managementTopics in Strategic Data Analysis Business Intelligence: Analytics Tools, Dashboards and Data Visualization practices Analytics: Customer Analytics and CRM Systems; Human Resource Analytics and HRM Systems;Sustainability Analytics and Energy Informatics; etc.Information Systems and Business Areas Product Development: Product Design & Development Processes; PLM Systems BPM: Business Process Management Approaches; BPMS Knowledge management: Knowledge Management Approaches & Systems Collaboration: Business Social Networking & Collaboration TechnologyTopics in Emerging Technologies & Business Opportunities Blockchain: Bitcoin / crypto-currencies; new business models Internet of Things: Sensor nets, wearables, smart houses, cars and cities Artificial Intelligence: Machine learning, social bots, predictive analytics Other Technologies: 3D Printing, Drones, Robots, Augmented / Virtual Reality, Crowds, etc.3
CLASS 1 – AUGUST 12 – DIGITAL DISRUPTIONCase 1:Bonnier: Digitalizing the Media Business HBS Case 9-813-073 (Applegate et al 2012)Write-up: Email 1-2 page case-writeup to berente@uga.edu. DO NOT regurgitate case facts or summarize the case. Get to the point and in making your points draw on evidence from the case. Following are questions that are food for thought – you do not have to answer all (or any) of them:1. What does the Bonnier case tell us about the fast pace of digital innovation? What does it tell us about how traditional companies can deal with digital innovation? How did Ohrvall organize innovation differently from the traditional incremental innovators in the industry? 2. Was the approach Bonnier chose to establish a centralized R&D department and to change its innovation practices a sound business decision? Was it risky? Why or why not? What were some challenges with this approach?Readings:o Porter, M. E., & Heppelmann, J. E. (2014). How smart, connected products are transforming competition. Harvard Business Review, 92(11), 64-88.o Hirt, M., & Willmott, P. (2014). Strategic principles for competing in the digital age. McKinsey Quarterly, 2.o Download and install RapidMiner Studio trial (for in-class exercise): https://rapidminer.com/products/studio/o [optional] Osterwalder Pigneur 2010 – Business Model Generation book preview 72 page preview available free at this site http://www.businessmodelgeneration.com/bookAgenda:8 - 9 AM – Introductions & Disruptive Innovation Basics9-10 AM – Case Reading & Writeup email10 – 11:30 – Case Discussion and Digital Disruption & Business Models 11:30-Noon – Choose group projects, send email with top 2 topic choices. Noon – Lunch1-2 Principles of Digital Disruption & Business Models2-4 Data Analytics and RapidMinerReflection:- Write a 2-3 page reflection on the ideas from the class discussion, readings, and the case and email it to berente@uga.edu on or before August 16th.- To get full credit, show evidence of thorough understanding of BOTH of the required readings and ideas from the class and case discussion.- Then apply one or two of these ideas to your current company (or to a company context you are very familiar with). What did you learn? What can you apply? What are the associated challenges?    4
CLASS 2 – SEPTEMBER 9 – DIGITAL PLATFORMSCase 2:Philips Healthcare: Marketing the HealthSuite Digital Platform HBS Case 9-813-073 (Applegate et al 2012)Write-up: Email 1-2 page case-writeup to berente@uga.edu. DO NOT regurgitate case facts or summarize the case. Get to the point and in making your points draw on evidence from the case. Following are questions that are food for thought – you do not have to answer all (or any) of them:1. Will the platform be attractive for app developers and providers? What could HSDP do to improve this attractiveness?2. What are some challenges to this platform strategy? Alternatives to this strategy? What are the pros and cons of this strategy compared to alternatives?Readings:o Tiwana – Ch12 of Platform Ecosystemso Van Alstyne, M.W., Parker,G.G. and Choudary, S.P. (2016) "Pipelines, platforms, and thenew rules of strategy." Harvard Business Review 94(4), 16.o [optional] Zhu, F., & Furr, N. (2016). Products to platforms: Making the leap. HarvardBusiness Review, 94(4), 18.Agenda:8 – 9:30 AM – Case Discussion & Intro to Platforms10 – 11:30 AM – Guest Lecture on “Data Analytics” – Sandeep Gupta, Equifax 11:30-1 – Group time & Lunch1-2 Principles of Digital Platform Models2-4 Digital Platform Model / Design Thinking Exercise and Report OutReflection:- Write a ~3 page reflection on the ideas from the class discussion, readings, and the case and email it to berente@uga.edu on or before August 30th.- To get full credit, show evidence of thorough understanding of BOTH of the required readings and ideas from the class and case discussion.- Then apply one or two of these ideas to your current company (or to a company context you are very familiar with). What did you learn? What can you apply? What are the associated challenges?  5
CLASS 3 – SEPTEMBER 18-22 – VIRTUALAugust 12During class on August 13: send a note to berente@uga.edu with the first two topics your groups would like to research.- cc all members of your group and include group names in the body of the email- choose first and second topic and be as specific as possibleSeptember 11By September 11th: send a one-page outline to berente@uga.edu indicating:- main topic of each section- key reference material(s) where you will get your information- ideas for company examplesSeptember 18-22Schedule a virtual meeting with the instructor to discuss the plan for the report and to get direction for materials.September 28Completed Report due September 28th midnight. Lose 5 points for every day that report is late (Note the report is worth 20 points).  6
CLASS 4 – SEPTEMBER 30 – TOPIC PRESENTATIONSReadings:o Nylén, D., & Holmström, J. (2015). Digital innovation strategy: A framework for diagnosing and improving digital product and service innovation. Business Horizons, 58(1), 57-67.o Blank, S. (2013). Why the lean start-up changes everything. Harvard business review, 91(5), 63-72.o [optional] Rigby, D. K., Sutherland, J., & Takeuchi, H. (2016). Embracing Agile. Harvard Business Review.Agenda:8 – 9:30 AM – Topics in IT Management10 – 11:30 AM – Topics in Data Analysis and IS11:30-1 – Lunch1-2 Guest Lecture on “Digital Product Development” – Varun Nagaraj, Sierra 2:30-4 Topics in Emerging TechnologiesReflection:- Write a ~1-2 page reflection on ONE of the topics from student presentations and email it to berente@uga.edu on or before September 27th.- To get full credit, apply a lesson from one of the topics to your current company (or to a company context you are very familiar with). What did you learn? What can you apply? What are the associated challenges? Do additional googling or ask the group for their report if it will help with your writeup. 7