 5/19/2017 Course Syllabus - EMBA7310 Operations Mgt Summer 2017 60584INSTRUCTOREMBA 7310: Operations Management Summer, 2017Rich Daniels, Department of ManagementEmail: rdaniels@uga.eduPhone: (404) 842–4862Office: 318M Correll Hall / 100 Terry Executive Education Center Office Hours: Available by appointmentCOURSE DESCRIPTIONMatching supply with demand is an enormous challenge for firms: excess supply is costly, while inadequate supply invites customers to do business elsewhere. In this course we explore how firms can organize their operations to more effectively align supply with the demand for their products and services. Throughout the course we illustrate mathematical analysis applied to real operational situations, seeking rigor and relevance. The aim is to provide both the tactical knowledge and the high-level insight required of general managers. We demonstrate how companies can and have used the principles developed in this course to significantly enhance their competitive position.PRE-REQUISITESThere are no pre-requisites for this course.COURSE OBJECTIVESThe first part of the course emphasizes the processes by which goods are produced or services delivered. Process analysis in this context ignores variability with respect to customer arrivals, service times, production rates, or quality, and seeks to structure operations to maximize supply given the limited set of resources available to the firm. In the second part of the course, we extend process analysis to incorporate both supply and demand variability, and examine the associated impact on waiting times and the corresponding losses due to operational delays. The remainder of the course focuses on managing uncertain demand, both within the firm and across the supply chain. Flexible supply processes are most effective in matching supply with demand; however, process flexibility is usually expensive. We discuss how to determine the appropriate level of supply flexibility for a given environment, and explore strategies for economically increasing a firm's supply flexibility. For situations where supply is inflexible, we present approaches for managing demand to better match this fixed supply.UNIVERSITY HONOR CODE AND ACADEMIC HONESTY POLICYAs a University of Georgia student, you have agreed to abide by the University’s academic honesty policy, “A Culture of Honesty,” and the Student Honor Code. All academic work must meet the standards described in “A Culture of Honesty” found at: www.uga.edu/honesty. Lack of knowledge of the academic honesty policy is not a reasonable explanation for a violation. Questions related to course assignments and the academic honesty policy should be directed to the instructor.https://uga.view.usg.edu/d2l/le/content/1325658/viewContent/19859509/View 1/3
 5/19/2017 Course Syllabus - EMBA7310 Operations Mgt Summer 2017 60584CHANGES TO THE SYLLABUSThe course syllabus is a general plan for the course; deviations announced to the class by the instructor may be necessary.REQUIRED COURSE MATERIALThe text for the course is Cachon and Terwiesch, Matching Supply with Demand: An Introduction to Operations Management, 3rd Edition, McGraw-Hill, 2013.The course web site can be accessed at www.elc.uga.edu by clicking on the link to EMBA 7310: Operations Management. Please contact me or the Terry Help Desk (706-542-6799) if you have trouble accessing the course web site.COURSE REQUIREMENTS AND GRADINGGrades for the course will be based on the following: 4 Case Analyses (20%)4 Quizzes (20%)Final Exam (50%)Class participation (10%)Each group is responsible for submitting answers to assigned questions for four cases, Kristen's Cookie Company (due Saturday, June 3), Le Club Francais du Vin (due Friday, June 23), Sport Obermeyer (due Saturday, June 24), and an online discussion of Toyota Moter Company (during the final distance week). Questions can be found in the folder for the appropriate date in the Course Content section of eLC. Submissions are due at the beginning of class on the day which the case is to be discussed.Each individual is also responsible for completing four quizzes. Quiz 1 covers the process analysis material contained in Chapters 1-4 and Chapter 7 of the Cachon and Terwiesch text, and is due at the end of the day on Monday, June 12. Quiz 2 covers the material on managing variability and waiting times contained in Chapters 8 and 9 of the text, and is due at the end of the day on Monday, June 19. Quiz 3 covers the material on managing uncertain demand contained in Chapters 12 and 13 of the text, and is due at the end of the day on Monday, July 3. Quiz 4 covers the material on the base stock model and risk pooling strategies contained in Chapters 14 and 15 of the text, and is due at the end of the day on Monday, July 10. While each student should submit an individual quiz, you are encouraged to collaborate with your classmates in completing the quizzes. The quizzes are open-book and open-note, and you can use whatever resources you wish to complete the assignment, except for the answer key itself. You can take each quiz up to two times, and only the better of the two scores will count towards the final grade.There will be a comprehensive final exam at the end of the course. The final is due at the end of the day on Monday, July 31.The course relies heavily on case material and discussion, and as such I have high expectations with respect to your level of preparation and participation. The class participation component of the final grade will be made up of three parts.     https://uga.view.usg.edu/d2l/le/content/1325658/viewContent/19859509/View 2/3
 5/19/2017Course Syllabus - EMBA7310 Operations Mgt Summer 2017 60584Instructor evaluation – I will assess your contributions to discussions of readings and cases, both in class and on course discussion boards. The intent here is to reward contributions that (i) get the discussion off to a productive start, (ii) shape the discussion through the introduction or use of concepts and frameworks, (iii) provide enlightening quantitative analysis, (iv) help change direction when needed, and (v) summarize others’ comments, all in a concise manner with avoidance of repetition. Bear in mind that the quality of contributions is valued over quantity, especially on discussion boards.Peer evaluation – Group members will evaluate each others’ contributions outside of class, measuring, e.g., each individual’s effort and involvement in the case write-ups, or analyses of other cases and readings. This component is meant to capture each individual’s level of success in supporting and enhancing the group’s collective understanding of the concepts, issues, and techniques in the course.Self evaluation – You will evaluate your own performance in the course, including the amount of effort you have dedicated to the class, how well you have internalized the material discussed in the course and related it to environments with which you are familiar, and how well you have anticipated the issues contained in the cases and readings and shared your insights with other participants.   https://uga.view.usg.edu/d2l/le/content/1325658/viewContent/19859509/View 3/3